[SPARK-57316][DOCS] Document WITH SCHEMA EVOLUTION and BY NAME for SQL INSERT (#56370)
apache/spark: docs/sql-ref-syntax-dml-insert-table.md

    - All specified columns should exist in the table and not be duplicated from each other. It includes all columns except the static partition columns.
    - The size of the column list should be exactly the size of the data from `VALUES` clause or query.

* **BY NAME**

    Columns and nested fields are matched by position between the source query and the target

>     table, unless `BY NAME` is specified, in which case columns and fields are matched by name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    By default, columns and nested fields are matched by position between the source query and the target
    table. With `BY NAME`, columns and nested fields are matched by name, allowing them to be ordered differently in the source query and target table.
```

+------------+----------------------+----------+
```

##### Insert By Name Using a SELECT Statement

```sql
CREATE TABLE target (n INT, text STRING, s STRUCT<a INT, b INT>);

-- BY NAME matches the top-level columns by name, so they may be listed in any order.
-- Nested struct fields are matched by position, so the struct field order in the query

> -- must match the target schema (STRUCT<a INT, b INT>).

Reviewer 2: This note isn't correct: with `BY NAME`, nested struct fields are matched **by name**, not by position. The by-name mode propagates recursively into nested structs (and array-element / map structs), so it's not "top-level by name, nested by position."

In `TableOutputResolver`, a `BY NAME` write goes through `reorderColumnsByName`, and a matched struct column recurses with `byName = true` into `resolveStructType`, which again calls `reorderColumnsByName` on the nested fields. This matches the behavior of the schema-evolution path (`ResolveSchemaEvolution`), which threads the same `isByName` flag into nested structs.

This is verified by `V2WriteAnalysisSuite` "check fields of struct type column": with target struct `{a, b}` and source struct `{x, y}`, the `byName` case *fails* with `INCOMPATIBLE_DATA_FOR_TABLE.CANNOT_FIND_DATA` on `` `col`.`a` `` (it looked up the nested field by name), while the `byPosition` case succeeds mapping `x->a, y->b`.

Also, as written the example can't actually demonstrate the rule, since the source struct `named_struct('a', 1, 'b', 2)` has the same field names *and* order as the target — the result `{1, 2}` is identical either way. Suggest fixing the comment and reordering the nested fields so it's illustrative:

```sql
-- BY NAME matches both top-level columns and nested struct fields by name,
-- so they may be listed in any order in the source query.
INSERT INTO target BY NAME
    SELECT named_struct('b', 2, 'a', 1) AS s, 0 AS n, 'data' AS text;
-- s is {1, 2}: nested fields matched by name, not position
```

    SELECT named_struct('b', 2, 'a', 1) AS s, 0 AS n, 'data' AS text;
-- s is {1, 2}: nested fields matched by name, not position.

SELECT * FROM target;
+---+----+------+
|  n|text|     s|
+---+----+------+
|  0|data|{1, 2}|
+---+----+------+

CREATE OR REPLACE TABLE target (n INT, arr ARRAY<STRUCT<a INT, b INT>>);

-- A missing top-level column is filled with its default value (NULL here).
INSERT INTO target BY NAME
    SELECT array(named_struct('a', 1, 'b', 2)) AS arr, 0 AS n;
INSERT INTO target BY NAME

>     SELECT array(named_struct('a', 1, 'b', 2)) AS arr;

Reviewer 2: Minor: this comment sits above both `INSERT` statements, but only the second one (without `n`) actually omits a column — the first supplies both `arr` and `n`. Consider moving it directly above the second `INSERT` so it's clear which statement demonstrates the default fill.

SELECT * FROM target;
+----+--------+
|   n|     arr|
+----+--------+
|   0|[{1, 2}]|
|NULL|[{1, 2}]|
+----+--------+

-- A source column whose name does not match any target column is an error.
INSERT INTO target BY NAME
    SELECT array(named_struct('a', 1, 'b', 2)) AS arr, 0 AS badname;
Error

-- Duplicate source column names that resolve to the same target column are an error.
INSERT INTO target BY NAME
    SELECT array(named_struct('a', 1, 'b', 2)) AS arr, 0 AS n, 1 AS n;

> Error: INSERT_COLUMN_ARITY_MISMATCH.TOO_MANY_DATA_COLUMNS

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest just removing this example. It doesn't demonstrate duplicate-name resolution: the arity check runs before any name matching, so with 3 source columns against the 2-column target you get `TOO_MANY_DATA_COLUMNS` purely on column count — the duplicate `n` is never evaluated. The identical error occurs for a positional insert (`INSERT INTO target SELECT array(...), 0, 1`), so it's neither `BY NAME`-specific nor illustrative of what the comment claims.
